Environment

I used netbeans 8.2 to create a maven web project.  The project uses java 1.8, tomcat 8.0.27.0, java ee 7 web.  See pom.xml for includes.

A MySQL database was created with three tables - actor, movie, catalog. See database.sql file for creation.  This was prepopulated with Bond actors and movies.
file database_setup.txt.

The context.xml was edited and uses the following datasource element:

<Resource name="jdbc/actor_movie_catalog_DS" 
          auth="Container" 
          type="javax.sql.DataSource" 
          username="<user>" 
          password="<password>" 
          driverClassName="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver" 
          url="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/actor_movie_catalog"/>

The jar mysql-connector-java-8.0.26.jar was added to the Tomcat /bin directory.

I am using this environment as it is the one I used at my previous employer's.  I had started out with NetBeans 12.4 but ran into issues running my code.  

Comments:
I realized deep into the design that I missed "cast and crew member" vs just "actor".  The design does state this and the suggested data should have alerted me to my
mistake.  Since I was so far into the project, internally the code is designed and annotated as actor, not cast_or_crew_member.  One could still use it for cast and 
crew, just not as intuitive.

Data probably could have been handled more simply as one table; however, I wanted to be able to manage movies and actors separately with a catalog table. 
Unfortunately this wasn't particularly ideal either given I was using Bond movies as example data -- there are two Casino Royale's -- and without more data
on the movie table, these became confused.  I would also have indicated the job type (actor, director) and the role if an actor - bond, goldfinger, oddjob... but 
one can only tinker so much.

GET Actor by ID - query parameter /actor?actorId={value}
- IDs are expected to be Long values.  These are generated by an auto increment in the database.  
- if missing or invalid data, a bad argument response is given with an error.
- as the code is expecting Long, a non numeric value will generate a server error
- if the ID is not found, the response is ok, but the response contains an error with message "No actors found by ID: {value}".
- if the ID is found, the response is ok with the actor and the movies worked on

GET Actor(s) by Name - path parameter /actor/{value}
- Name is expected to be a filter allowing for potentially multiple response values.
- if no data is found, an ok response is given but with error and message "No actors found by name: {value}".
- if data is found, the response is ok with a json array of actor and the movies worked on -- similar output to actor by id
          
GET get all - /actor/actorlist
- no parameters expected or checked.  this gets all cataloged actors and their movies.  response is similar output to actor by id.

PUT - /actor/{data}
- {data} is expected to be in json object or json array/json object formats
- json object must have ActorName and MovieName elements
- if ActorName does not exist, the new Actor is added - a summary item is added on the response
- if MovieName does not exist, the new Movie is added - a summary item is added on the response
- if either Actor or Movie is added, then a new catalog record is added - a summary item is added on the response
- if no actors or movies are added the response is ok but the response contains an error stating "no data added"
          
Tests
- i have included collections of tests for GETS and PUTS separately.  In these there are the requests and at least one sample.  Tests were run on postman (curl was
  acting up).  Files gaggle GET tests.postman_collection.json, gaggle POST tests.postman_collection.json.
- i had previously tested with a firefox plugin RESTClient. However this not being one of your options and curl acting up, the postman got the nod.  That said,
  please let me know if there are any issues with my tests. 
- I am aware of an issue where if an error occurs during the POST, that inserts were committed.  Ideally I would have set up tables as INNODB and used transactions.

          
